ujjagar singh the appellant herein a resident of village bangawali tehsil malerkotla
in addition he was convicted for an offence punishable
for 10 years and to a fine of rs 5 000 and in default of payment to undergo further r i for one year and section 309 of the ipc to a sentence of simple imprisonment for one year.
satnam singh conveyed this information to sarpanch jora singh pw1 who was attending a marriage at that time.
removed ujjagar singh to the civil hospital dhuri in the jeep belonging to kulwant singh pw4.
exhibit p a sent it to police station dhuri where the formal fir was registered at about 4 45 p m with the special report being delivered to the illaka magistrate at dhuri itself at 6 20 p m the same evening.
the facts as narrated were that arjan singh of village bangawali had three sons puran singh ujjagar singh appellant and ajmer singh.
exit wound of 5 cm x 3 5 cm to the front of the right side of the chest.
case was then put to the accused and his statement recorded section.
false allegations have been levelled against me.
i never harassed mukhtiar kaur nor ever got her land mutated from her mother by fraud.
the appellant as already mentioned above.
the aforesaid articles had been carried to the laboratory by constable gopal singh who in his affidavit dated 17th march 2003 deposed that he had first taken the articles to the laboratory on 9th december 2002 but they had been returned by the director on the ground that the seals affixed thereon were not of the requisite number and that after removing the objections
the onus was on him.
he failed to discharge the same.
was tried and convicted by the additional sessions judge sangrur for the murder of his niece mukhtiar kaur and was awarded the death penalty.
or made any complaint to any person or any authority with regard to the decree and as such the very basis of the prosecution story did not exist.
the chemical examiner from the post mortem reports and the recovery of the gun and cartridges.
we have heard the learned counsel for the parties and gone through the record.
we first take up for consideration the question of the conviction
could not have been carried out immediately.
story and having given a different version the appellant was entitled to derive such benefit as possible in this situation.
there is not only a grammatical but a legal distinction
the act must have been done by the accused.
we are of the opinion however that no adverse inference can be drawn from either of these circumstances.
it is true as contended that in column 22 of the inquest report which refers to the articles found near the dead body there is no reference to the spent cartridges or the murder weapon but we find from a perusal of the site plan exh.
pjj prepared by the investigating officer inspector harjinder
it has also been submitted by mr goburdhan that there appeared to be no motive for the incident as the story about mukhtiar kaur 's unhappiness
story is perhaps giving this one factor an importance which is not due and to use the clichi.
there is however a hint in the testimony of pw14 inspector harjinder pal singh that his enquiries had revealed that the accused was having illicit relations with mukhtiar kaur and we can assume that some thing untoward had happened which could have triggered the volatile and hostile incident.
there could perhaps be some truth in this suggestion as it is significant that though the appellant had an extended family living with him i e mother wife son living in the village and two young daughters who were studying outside and residing in a hostel but were frequent visitors home yet none of them has come forth to depose in his favour.
is also due from an accused in order to absolve himself from suspicion of the crime.
e in modi 's medical jurisprudence and toxicology
the firearm is usually fired at close range.
homicidal shooting by dacoits is not uncommon in india and they are known to make their own firearms.
immediate death following a firearm wound is uncommon and even when vital organs are injured a person may be capable of doing extraordinary things.
dr b r sharma in his book forensic science in criminal investigation
and trials fourth edition at page 1160 too has delineated the circumstances
used by suicides for self inflicted injuries.
with knife throat and wrist are the favourite sites.
and findings of incestuous rape and murder.
acquit the appellant of the charge section 376 of the ipc but maintain his conviction
the trial court and the high court relying on the circumstances available on the evidence convicted and sentenced
taken collectively are incapable of explanation on any reasonable hypothesis
1973 indlaw sc 181 where the following observations were made.
313 of the cr.
p c in reply to question 33 he stated as under i am innocent.
mr goburdhan the learned counsel for the accused has raised several arguments in the course of hearing.
the learned state counsel has however supported the judgment of the courts below.
from which the conclusion of guilt is to be drawn should be fully established.
1981 2 scc 35 1980 indlaw sc 47 sharad birdhichand
mr goburdhan has also laid much stress on the apparent discordance between the prosecution
no blackening or foreign body was visible.
underlying muscles were exposed and contamination was present.
he has thus urged that the absence of any blackening underlined
the argument that the shot had been fired from some distance and as such an attempt at suicide was clearly to be ruled out.
he has also drawn our attention to the cross examination of the doctor wherein he reiterated
there was no other person.
the cause of death of the deceased usha devi i e by a gun shot injury is not disputed.
the fact that the terrace and the bedroom are adjoining each other is not in dispute.
the autopsy report shows that a blackening and charring existed so far as injury no i is concerned.
the blackening and charring keeping in view the nature of the firearm which is said to have been used clearly go to show that a shot was fired from a short distance.
the place of injury is also important.
there was thus a remote possibility of causation of such type of injury by any other person who was not in the terrace.
once the prosecution has been able to show that at the relevant time the room and terrace were in exclusive occupation of the couple the burden of proof lay upon the respondent to show under what circumstances
death was caused to his wife.
to prove its case beyond doubt but in circumstances such as the present one some explanation
that could indicate suicide and while referring to the site of the injury has observed certain sites are predominantly
made out a case for conviction and the accused having given a counter version some obligation lay on him as well to explain the circumstances
save that of the guilt sought to be proved against him.
in this case this court held that the omission of the prosecution
certainly it is a primary principle that the accused must be and not merely may be guilty before a court can convict and the mental distance between may be is long and divides vague conjectures from sure conclusions.
we are further of the opinion that even assuming for a moment that sexual intercourse
for the other offences but commute his death sentence to life.
with this modification the appeal is dismissed.
appeal dismissed.
