ujjagar singh the appellant herein a resident of village bangawali tehsil malerkotla was tried and convicted by the additional sessions judge sangrur for the murder of his niece mukhtiar kaur and was awarded the death penalty.
the aforesaid convictions and sentences have been maintained by the high court and the matter is before us in these proceedings by way of special leave.
the facts of the case are as under.
satnam singh conveyed this information to sarpanch jora singh pw1 who was attending a marriage at that time.
jora singh and gurdeep singh immediately removed ujjagar singh to the civil hospital dhuri in the jeep belonging to kulwant singh pw4.
jora singh also met inspector harjinder pal singh pw14 at 4 40 p m near the hospital who recorded his statement at that place and with his endorsement exhibit p a sent it to police station dhuri where the formal fir was registered at about 4 45 p m with the special report being delivered to the illaka magistrate at dhuri itself at 6 20 p m the same evening.
pw10 karam singh aforesaid confirmed the story given by balwinder singh.
my house kothi is situated on the outer skirts of village bangawali and door planks had not been fixed so far to rooms.
it has finally been submitted that the land had been transferred in the name of ujjagar singh 's sons in the year 1994 by gurmail kaur mother of mukhtiar kaur by a collusive decree and there was no evidence to show that mukhtiar kaur had ever displayed any unhappiness or made any complaint to any person or any authority with regard to the decree and as such the very basis of the prosecution story did not exist.
he failed to discharge the same.
we have heard the learned counsel for the parties and gone through the record.
No 4 an abrasion near the right eye do not indicate any attempt to rape or the commission of rape.
it is also significant that the investigators had made no attempt whatsoever to have the appellant medically examined to ascertain his capacity to perform sexual intercourse.
we are of the opinion however that no adverse inference can be drawn from either of these circumstances.
gopal singh was cross examined by the prosecution.
it is true as contended that in column 22 of the inquest report which refers to the articles found near the dead body there is no reference to the spent cartridges or the murder weapon but we find from a perusal of the site plan exh.
it is true that in a case relating to circumstantial evidence motive does assume great importance but to say that the absence of motive would dislodge the entire prosecution story is perhaps giving this one factor an importance which is not due and to use the clichi.
there could perhaps be some truth in this suggestion as it is significant that though the appellant had an extended family living with him i e mother wife son living in the village and two young daughters who were studying outside and residing in a hostel but were frequent visitors home yet none of them has come forth to depose in his favour.
it is true that it is generally for the prosecution to prove its case beyond doubt but in circumstances such as the present one some explanation is also due from an accused in order to absolve himself from suspicion of the crime.
e in modi 's medical jurisprudence and toxicology 23rd edition at page 765 while dealing with identification of homicidal and suicidal injuries it has been observed that a suicidal firearm wound is usually a contact wound situated on the side of the temple depending on which hand was used to shoot himself in the centre of the forehead the roof of the mouth in the chest or epigastrium in front or the left side and some times under the chin.
sometimes the firing is done by pulling a string tied to the trigger by the big toe.
the skin around the entry wound shows characteristic blackening scorching and tattooing.
homicidal shooting by dacoits is not uncommon in india and they are known to make their own firearms.
sometimes firearm wounds may look like knife slashes or a bullet hole may resemble a penetrating stab wound if the bullet strikes the head of shoulder at an angle or when an unstable bullet registers a broadside hit.
with knife throat and wrist are the favourite sites.
reliance for this argument has been placed on the decision of raj kumar prasad tamarkar v state of bihar anr.
in this case this court held that the omission of the prosecution inter alia to have the finger prints found on the alleged murder weapon was fatal to the prosecution story.
certainly it is a primary principle that the accused must be and not merely may be guilty before a court can convict and the mental distance between may be is long and divides vague conjectures from sure conclusions.
313 of the cr.
p c in reply to question 33 he stated as under i am innocent.
i fell down on the ground and became unconscious.
mr goburdhan the learned counsel for the accused has raised several arguments in the course of hearing.
the learned state counsel has however supported the judgment of the courts below.
he has further emphasized that the prosecution 's case stood proved from various factors including the medical evidence the reports of the forensic science laboratory the chemical examiner from the post mortem reports and the recovery of the gun and cartridges.
he has also relied on the judgment of balu sonba shinde v state of maharashtra 2002 7 scc 543 2002 indlaw sc 1923 to contend that it was open to the accused to take advantage insofar as possible from the statement of a witness though declared hostile and the four witnesses having disowned the prosecution story and having given a different version the appellant was entitled to derive such benefit as possible in this situation.
he has in this connection referred us to the statement of dr ripan miglani pw15 and the wound found on the appellant at the time of his medical examination in the department of surgery of the dayanand medical college hospital ludhiana which was about 15 x 8 cm curvilinear wound present on the left half of face extending upto bone.
no blackening or foreign body was visible.
underlying muscles were exposed and contamination was present.
there was no other person.
the cause of death of the deceased usha devi i e by a gun shot injury is not disputed.
the fact that the terrace and the bedroom are adjoining each other is not in dispute.
the blackening and charring keeping in view the nature of the firearm which is said to have been used clearly go to show that a shot was fired from a short distance.
the place of injury is also important.
there was thus a remote possibility of causation of such type of injury by any other person who was not in the terrace.
once the prosecution has been able to show that at the relevant time the room and terrace were in exclusive occupation of the couple the burden of proof lay upon the respondent to show under what circumstances death was caused to his wife.
the onus was on him.
dr b r sharma in his book forensic science in criminal investigation and trials fourth edition at page 1160 too has delineated the circumstances that could indicate suicide and while referring to the site of the injury has observed certain sites are predominantly used by suicides for self inflicted injuries.
the trial court and the high court relying on the circumstances available on the evidence convicted and sentenced the appellant as already mentioned above.
we accordingly acquit the appellant of the charge section 376 of the ipc but maintain his conviction for the other offences but commute his death sentence to life.
with this modification the appeal is dismissed.
appeal dismissed.
